Web Technology
Assignment 1

Student Name:Jonish Gurung                  Date:2025/12/18
Roll/ID No:10                           Program:BIT

CHAPTER 1: AN OVERVIEW OF THE INTERNET AND THE WEB
Group A: Short Questions (2 Marks)
1. Define the term ”Protocol” in the context of the Internet. 
-> In the context of the Internet the term "”Protocol” is a set rule that computer follows to communicate with each other on the internet.
Like, for example people need a common language to talk, computers need protocols 
so they know how the data should be sent, received, and understood.

2. What is the primary difference between a Web Browser and a Search Engine?
-> A web browser is a software application that is used to open and view websites.
Without a browser,you connot access the web.
-> A search engine is a  tool or service that helps you search for 
information or websites on the internet.
Browser is access tool
Search engine is finding tool

3. Define the World Wide Web (WWW).
->The World Wide Web(WWW) is a huge collection of web pages, images, videos, and other resources that are 
connected through links and stored on server aross the world.
The Internet is the physical network (cables,routers, satellites), while the WWW is a service that runs on the internet, 
accessed using browers and web protocols.

4. Distinguish between a static web page and a dynamic web page.
->A static web page is fixed. Every visitor sees the same content, and it only
changes if a developer manually edits the file.Where as dynamic web page changes the contents itself or automatically without
a manual procedures.

Group B: Long Questions (4 Marks)
5. Explain the client-server architecture of the web with a neat diagram.
->
6. Describe the functions of the following Internet services: Email, FTP, and VoIP.
7. ”The Internet is a network of networks.” Elaborate on this statement explaining how
packet switching works.
Group C: Scenario-Based Questions (5 Marks)
8. A startup company wants to host a website that displays the same information to all
visitors and requires very low maintenance costs. However, they are being advised to use
a dynamic website. As a consultant, would you agree? Justify your answer.
9. A user types www.google.com into their browser, but the browser displays a ”Server Not
Found” error, even though the internet connection is active. However, accessing the site
via 142.250.190.46 works. Diagnose the problem and explain the underlying technology
that failed.
10. A multinational corporation wants to share sensitive inventory data with specific suppliers
but does not want this information available to the general public. Explain which network
type (Intranet, Extranet, or Internet) they should implement and why.
